# Overview

Tangram is a Windows desktop software development solution that includes a core framework (the TangramCore), and two union-solutions (the Tangram+Chromium and the Tangram+Eclipse). It provides a technology that enables traditional desktop developers to build a Web-style desktop application. Different from the [Progressive Web Application](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Progressive_web_application) or the [Hybrid Application](https://searchsoftwarequality.techtarget.com/definition/hybrid-application-hybrid-app), when developing applications based on Tangram, developers use an HTML-like language XCML (eXtensible Component Markup Language) to render the user interface for Win32 applications. In the XCML document, developers can use components based on any traditional desktop technology (such as WinForm, WPF, UWP, MFC, Java SWT, etc).

# The advantages of Web technology

Today, many developers are keen to build applications based on the Web, and the Web does have many advantages over traditional desktop development technologies. From the user interface's perspective, traditional desktop developers need to write a lot of code related to size, position, and changes in size and position. Web developers only need to write HTML and CSS. Writing HTML and CSS is much simpler than writing code. The hierarchical structure of HTML corresponds to the hierarchical structure of user interface elements, making it more intuitive. And developers don't have to consider general programming issues such as pointer and object construction and destruction when writing HTML. In traditional desktop development, when the user interface needs to be modified, developers have to modify the source code, recompile, and package. Web developers need only modify HTML and CSS without compiling. In traditional desktop development, layout code and business code are mixed together, which makes the project extremely bloated. In Web applications, HTML and CSS are only used to present the user interface, and business logic is implemented by JavaScript and back-end service code. User interface and business logic are separated. From the perspective of application publishing and running, traditional desktop applications need to be compiled, packaged, uploaded, downloaded, and installed before they can be used by customers. In a web application, HTML and CSS are both texts, which can be quickly downloaded and interpreted by a browser, and users do not need any preparation. Moreover, because the original HTML and CSS files are stored on the server, this enables developers to update the application by modifying the server files.

# Product concept

Tangram provides a new technology that can give the above-mentioned features of the Web to traditional desktop applications. Its core is a new type of user interface description language XCML. When building desktop applications based on Tangram, developers first need to use traditional desktop development techniques to create some user interface components (such as WinForm UserControl, MFC View, and SWT Shell). Developers can create them using Visual Studio, Eclipse and any tool they wish to use. In the file system, these components usually appear as some .dll files or .jar files. Next, the developer writes some XCML documents. In the XCML document, the previously created components have become some XML elements. Developers can adjust the size and position of each component on the user interface by adjusting these XML elements. After that, the developers publish these XCML documents to the server. They can be hosted on static servers, such as [Apache2](https://httpd.apache.org/) and [Nginx](https://nginx.org/en/), or they can be dynamically generated by server programs, anyway. Finally, run a client application that includes the Tangram runtime. The application will download and interpret the XCML document to create the user interface.

[Screenshot]

*A user interface built by XCML.*

By using XCML, developers reduce a lot of layout code. XCML removes the layout dependency between different components, making user interface updates easier. Developers only need to modify the XCML to update the layout structure of the user interface, and only need to add new XML elements to add new components to the user interface. Moreover, because the original XCML document is located on the server, this enables developers to immediately update the client application by updating the server’s XCML document.

# XCML document format

HTML and many other [user interface markup languages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_interface_markup_language) (such as [WPF/XAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extensible_Application_Markup_Language) and [QML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QML)) are focused on creating a standalone user interface system. Developers must discard all other traditional technology assets while using them. The XCML is a compromise solution. It is not a complete user interface markup language, but rather a mixture of text and binary. It enables developers to use XML to describe the main layout information of the user interface while using traditional technology components in each specific interface part. The advantage of this is that developers can either retain traditional development technologies and assets or easily change the user interface layout and add/remove content by updating XCML.

[Code Snippet]

This XCML document describes a 2x2 table, and each cell contains a binary user interface component.

# Tangram+Chromium solution

Tangram is actually a very open system. It works on the client-side and is responsible for interpreting XCML and generating the user interface. It does not limit how developers distribute and manage XCML, nor does it limit where the generated user interface should appear. This makes the system more flexible, but it also makes developers have to code themselves to do the rest. To work out of the box, Tangram customized the Chromium open-source code and created a union solution that integrated Chromium. The Tangram+Chromium union solution enables the full Chromium browser to be built into any Win32 application. Make general Win32 applications can also take advantage of all the features of Chromium. With these features, Tangram can work better.

Developers can write XCML into HTML files and get XCML from HTML by using Chromium to access specified URLs.

[Screenshot]

*Write XCML into HTML and get it by access the URL.*

In the union solution, Tangram enables developers to create interfaces into Chromium tabs so that customers can open applications by accessing the specified URL in Chromium.

[Screenshot]

*An application in the Chromium tab.*

In addition, Tangram connects the application code with the JavaScript in the web page. It enables developers to transfer part of the business code to web page scripts to facilitate modification on the server-side.

[Screenshot]

*Application code interacts with JavaScript.*

The union solution also enables web pages to be added as components to XCML, creating effects similar to [CEF](https://bitbucket.org/chromiumembedded/cef/src/master/) and [Electron](https://electronjs.org/).

[Screenshot]

*Web pages are used as components in Win32 applications.*

[Screenshot]

*Electron style.*

# Tangram+Eclipse solution

In the Java field, many developers like to build desktop applications based on [Eclipse RCP](https://wiki.eclipse.org/Rich_Client_Platform). The reason is that Eclipse’s window system ([Workbench](https://help.eclipse.org/2019-09/topic/org.eclipse.platform.doc.user/gettingStarted/qs-02a.htm?cp=0_1_0_0), [Editor](https://help.eclipse.org/2019-09/topic/org.eclipse.platform.doc.user/gettingStarted/qs-02d.xhtml?cp=0_1_0_1_0), and [View](https://help.eclipse.org/2019-09/topic/org.eclipse.platform.doc.user/gettingStarted/qs-02e.htm?cp=0_1_0_1_1)) greatly simplifies user interface development. By customizing the Eclipse open-source code, Tangram has created a union solution that integrated Eclipse. In the union solution, Tangram enables full Eclipse to be built into normal Win32 applications, and the generated user interface can be combined with Eclipse’s window system.

[Screenshot]

*Show the generated user interface into Eclipse Workbench.*

# How to use?

When developers build applications based on Tangram, they focus on three parts: executables, components, and XCML. Different from the traditional desktop application design concept, Tangram advocates that the executable should be as simple as possible, and transfer most of the application content to external components. This is more conducive to the subsequent dynamic updates. A minimal executable should only contain the Tangram runtime and the code for fetching XCML. Developers can use the Visual Studio wizard provided by Tangram to quickly create a minimal executable, or modify an existing executable. Developers can write some code and data that should not be exposed to the outside into executable, but don’t add too much business code. The executable is not suitable for frequent changes as a launcher. A team can share an executable across multiple projects.

After that, the developer’s main task is to create a series of business modules, and each module should have a reasonable size to facilitate the subsequent software upgrades. Tangram supports most industry-standard components, including [.NET Assembly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assembly_(CLI)), [Jar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JAR_(file_format)), [COM/ActiveX](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Component_Object_Model). For pure C++, Tangram supports dynamic link libraries that conform to Tangram specifications. Developer can use the Visual Studio wizard to quickly create it.

To combine components into a user interface, developers need some XCML. The XCML syntax is much simpler than HTML, and developers can write to them using any text editor. Tangram also provides a visual design tool for creating XCML.
